In filmmaking, AI characters are finally
consistent. That's not the problem
anymore. You don't need multiple tools
or rebuild your character every time.
With Google Flow, you create a character
once, I mean face, voice, and identity,
and just reuse it. Same person in every
scene. Let's start by creating a
character that looks real.
Create a new project. You'll have access
to both image and video generation
tools.
Now, if you want to create videos with
consistent characters, don't jump
straight to video generation. First,
start by creating your characters.
Head over to the character section and
build your characters there before
moving on to the next step. To create a
character, you have four options. First
one is using the built-in templates.
Every time you click a template, it
generates a new prompt and a completely
new character.
The second option is writing your own
prompt. For this, I'm using a Claude
skill. A skill is basically a system
that teaches AI how to build prompts
properly. You create the logic once,
then you just give it your inputs. I
simply upload the skill to Claude,
describe the character I want, and let
it generate the prompt for me. Review
prompt info and if needed, update them.
Otherwise, confirm them.
Copy the prompt and paste it here.
If you don't like the result, you can
delete it and generate another one. The
third option is using an image from your
current Flow project or even another
project. Then click add to character
button to continue creating your
character. And finally, the option I'm
going to use, uploading a character
image that I've already created. First,
give your character a name. One quick
tip, avoid names that are too common or
tied to famous people. Sometimes the
model can pull from existing knowledge
and that can affect the result. Next,
let's set up the voice. You can either
pick a voice from the list or create
your own. To create a custom voice,
start by selecting a base voice.
>> Hi there.
We're introducing a new feature where I
can read this aloud.
>> Then give it a name, describe how you
want it to sound, and add a sample line
for the AI to read.
Generate the voice and listen to it.
>> Sometimes you just need to get away for
a bit.
No plans, no pressure.
Just enjoy the moment.
>> If you don't like the result, adjust the
voice description and generate it again.
Once you're happy with it, click save
new voice.
Now your custom voice is ready and you
can use it across all your video
generations for this character.
Next, we have character info. This part
is optional, but it can help Flow
understand your character better.
Think about their personality, how they
speak, and how they usually react. The
more clearly you define your character's
personality, the easier it is to keep
them consistent across different scenes.
Next, let's talk about editing your
character. If you want to make changes
like changing the hairstyle or hair
color, you can do it right here.
When you click the plus button, Flow
automatically creates a prompt for
generating a character sheet. This gives
the model extra views of your character,
helping it stay more consistent across
different images and videos.
You can describe the outfit and body
here or change all the prompt, then let
Flow generate the character sheet for
you.
Personally, I prefer creating the
character sheet with Chat GPT's image
model.
I simply provide the original character
image and a character sheet template,
then ask it to generate matching views
of the same character. You can make your
own template in Paint, Canva, or any
design tool.
Just update the hairstyle and clothing
description to match your character and
generate the sheet.
If the result looks good, download it
and upload into Flow.
Once everything looks right, click done
and your character will be added to the
character section.
From there, you can add it directly to
your prompts or remove it whenever you
want. And if you ever want to update the
voice, character info, or reference
images, just open the character, make
your changes, and click done again.
If you want more characters, just repeat
the same steps for each one.
First, let's see how to use a character
in image generation, and then we'll move
on to videos. For the first example, I
have a location image and a dog image,
and I want to place my character in that
scene.
This is a very simple image generation
workflow.
To use your character, just type at and
select it from the character section.
You can even import a character from
another project if needed. I asked for a
full body shot of Rose walking along
this path with her dog.
As you can see, Flow keeps the character
consistent while placing her into the
new scene.
For the next example, I'm not using any
source images. Instead, I'm going to
generate a scene using only a simple
prompt. In this case, I want Rose
climbing a rocky mountain trail. If
you're not sure how to write a prompt,
just describe your idea in Chat GPT or
Claude and let it help you create one.
Then simply mention your character in
the prompt and run the generation.
And here's the final result. Same
character into a new environment while
keeping her consistent.
Now, let's see how to use the same
character in video generation. The first
method is generating a video from an
image. This is useful when you want to
place your character in a specific
environment or combine them with other
reference images. Start by adding your
image to the prompt box. Then write a
prompt describing what you want to
happen in the scene. After that, mention
your character.
For this example, I'm using Omni Flash,
the newest video model.
Depending on your settings, you can
generate videos between 4 and 10 seconds
long.
Wow, Earth looks so different from up
here.
Flow gives you two types of references
for video generation, frames and
ingredients. Ingredients help keep
characters and objects consistent across
generations. However, they don't lock
the first frame of your image. If you
need the video to start from an exact
image, use frames instead.
The second method is generating a video
from a text prompt. For this example,
I'm using a multi-shot prompt. Mention
the character in your prompt to use it.
Wait, what is that?
As you can see, the model generates
multiple shots based on the prompt.
You can trim the result or combine it
with additional clips to create a longer
video.
At the moment, Omni flash doesn't
support extending generated videos
directly. Instead, I save the last frame
of the video and use it to start a new
clip. You can save a frame from here.
Then drag it into the prompt area and
write a new prompt for the next scene.
Don't forget to mention your character
again.
Generate the new clip and check the
result.
>> Someone built this a long time ago.
>> If you're happy with it, go back to the
first video and add the new clip to the
timeline.
Wait, what is that?
>> Someone built this a long time ago.
>> You can trim part of the video to make
everything feel more natural. When you
press done, Flow saves all the clips as
a single video. You can find the final
result in the scene section.
When you click on it, you can continue
editing the video or add more clips
whenever you want.
At the time of recording, all of these
features are available on the free plan.
Give it a try and let me know what you
think.